---
title: "0x01"
date: 2025-09-02T20:27:46+02:00
# bookComments: false
# bookSearchExclude: false
---
This is my very first hugo site, although I've heard a lot of good things about it like ten years ago.

So far, I used to have _PHP_-based wikis or _Wordpress_ blogs, hosted on Linux with MySQL/MariaDB. I had to pay a lot every year for -- in fact -- some static content, which could have been transformed to `Markdown` files long time ago (but it hadn't happen then)

And now the `Hugo`.

<!--more-->

## What I tried before

_GitHub_ can host your static site in _GitHub Pages_ and I thought that I was supposed to use `Jekyll` which appeared to look good.

However.

It's written in `Ruby` and I couldn't manage to install _this fascinating programming language_ in my Windows laptop. Installer is a crap indeed, it forces you to proceed with `MSYS2`. When you already have `MSYS2` installed and want to skip it, your `Ruby` refuses to build external modules (many compilation errors found). I'm not familiar with `Ruby` and don't want to solve problems that _don't exist in other operating systems_, though.

On the other side, `Pelican` is written in `Python`, and installs perfectly with no issues. And yep, it's a crap. Thanks, but no thanks.

_And now the `Hugo`._

Benefits?

Single binary for _proprietary systems_, native package for the open ones. I don't need to be fluent in `Go`, I just use the program. All the concepts look good, themes look good, what else do I need?

## Future content

First, I'll try to migrate here some `README`'s, written in `Markdown`, _moved to digital_ from tons of my paper notebooks. Who uses notebooks in mid twenties?. Me.

Then, `blog.iostream.pl` will be transferred here. Finally, `wiki.iostream.pl` will follow this path.

## Issues

There may be problems with organizing how to put `mapy.iostream.pl` here. Need to think about this.

Yes, this is the end of journal for `Day One`.

